Compiling E-UAE
===============

E-UAE should be able to compile on any platform with a POSIX-like shell
environment, a C compiler and make. Version 2.95 or newer of the GNU C
Compiler is recommended as is GNU make, but alternative compilers and
versions of make may work. Some features may be GCC-specific, however.
Currently, for example, the JIT - the compiler which dynamically
translate 68k opcodes to x86 opcodes - does require GCC (and GAS, the
GNU assembler).

Currently zlib is also required to build E-UAE for all supported
platforms. This isn't much of hardship since zlib is available
everywhere, but shout loudly enough and I'll fix this.


Configuring
===========

The first step to compiling E-UAE is to generate a makefile suitable
for your intended target system. This is done by running the configure
script.

Run ./configure --help to see the list of options that the configure
script supports. Most options will automatically default to
appropriate values.

Here are a selection of the the supported options:

The config script for UAE supports a bunch of compile-time options for
selecting what features are built into UAE. Here's a selection:

--enable-jit
  Build CPU emulation with JIT compiler. Currently only supported on
  x86 platforms (known to work on Linux, Solaris, AROS, and BeOS, but
  should work on most Unix-like platforms, providing you are building
  with GCC). Defaults to enabled when building for x86.

--enable-natmem
  If building the JIT, include support for direct memory access (which
  greatly improves performance). Currently only supported on Linux.
  Defaults to enabled when building for Linux/x86.

--enable-autoconfig
  Include emulation of the Amiga's autoconfig expansion system.
  Required for emulating ZII or ZIII memory, emulating disks, SCSI
  devices, network stacks - in fact, most of the cool stuff that UAE
  can do. Currently defaults to enabled providing thread support is
  available (which should be on all the supported host platforms).
  This dependency on threads will eventually be removed.

--enable-aga
  Support emulation of AGA chipset. Defaults to true. Required if you
  want to emulate an A1200, A4000 or CD32.

--enable-scsi-device
  Build with SCSI emulation. This requires the libscg and libschily
  libraries and headers from cdrtools 2.0.x (see below).

--enable-cdtv
  Enable CDTV emulation. Requires SCSI emulation. Defaults to enabled
  if SCSI emulation is enabled.

--enable-cd32
  Enable CD32 emulation. Requires SCSI emulation and AGA support be
  enabled. Defaults to enabled if both these are enabled.

--enable-bsdsock
  Build with support for emulated network stack (an emulated
  bsdsocket.library). This works only on Unix platforms at the moment
  (including Linux and OS X).

--with-caps
  Build with support for IPF (CAPS) images. This requires the IPF
  development files from http://www.caps-project.org/

--with-caps-prefix=<dir>
  Optional absolute path to where the CAPS API is installed on your
  system.

--with-sdl-gfx
  Use SDL library for graphics output.

--with-sdl-gl
  Use SDL library for graphics output and enable OpenGL display output.

--with-sdl-sound
  Use SDL library for audio output.


Note that the '--enable-xyz' options all have a '--disable-xyz'
counterpart to disable that feature.


Compiling on MacOS X
--------------------

At the moment, only building against the SDL framework is supported.
Configure with

./configure --with-sdl-gfx --with-sdl-sound

and any other options you fancy.

If you are building on an x86 OS X box, then the SDL test in the
configure script currently fails. It should build okay if you disable
the SDL test. That is, configure with:

./configure --with-sdl-gfx --with-sdl-sound --disable-sdltest

I've not tested this myself, however, since I don't have a MacIntel
box.


Building the SCSI emulation
---------------------------

E-UAE's SCSI emulation may use libscg, the SCSI transport layer from
the cdrtools project (see http://cdrecord.berlios.de). Note, however,
due to a license change in the cdrtools project, only versions of
cdrtools up to 2.01.01a08 inclusive may be used.

If libscg is not available on your build system, download a recent
version of cdrecord and compile it. Then run the ./src/install_libscg
script in the E-UAE source archive to move the relevant files from
cdrecord to the E-UAE source directory.

If your system has the libscg headers and library installed in a
non-standard location, you can pass the --with-libscg-prefix option or
the --with-libscg-includedir and --with-libscg-libdir options to the
configure script to specify where these are installed.

On Linux systems, if libscg is not available, E-UAE tries to use a
Linux-specific SCSI emulation that is based on some ioctl() commands.
